# Turn Big Data into Answers with Splunk: Web Log Analysis Using Splunk and AWS S3

This project repository is created in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the Big Data Analytics course offered by the Master of Science in Business Analytics program at the Carlson School of Management, University of Minnesota.

**Dataset:** https://www.kaggle.com/code/eliasdabbas/webserver-log-file-analysis/notebook

**Requirements:**
* AWS accounct with S3 access
* Splunk cloud liscense or trial

## Setup
In our solution we are analyzing log data generated by Zanbil.ir which is an e-commerce website. Some of the important fields on which we have done analysis include timestamp when a user visits a website, unique user id and from where that user is landing on the website. We have used s3 as our storage solution and new data generated by user activity keeps on getting added on top of current data. Splunk is connected to s3 and various analyses including ad-hoc search are performed on splunk. 

**Complete the steps to configure Incremental S3 inputs for the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services (AWS):**

* You must manage accounts for the add-on as a prerequisite. See Manage accounts for the Splunk Add-on for AWS.
* Configure AWS services for the Incremental S3 input.
* Configure AWS permissions for the Incremental S3 input. You can skip this step and configure AWS permissions at once, if you prefer. See Configure AWS permissions for all Splunk Add-on for AWS inputs at once.
* (Optional) Configure VPC Interface Endpoints for STS and S3 services from your AWS Console if you want to use private endpoints for data collection and authentication. For more information, see the Interface VPC endpoints (AWS PrivateLink) topic in the Amazon Virtual Private Cloud documentation.
* Configure Incremental S3 inputs either through Splunk Web or configuration files.

**For more details for configuration visit:** https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/AddOns/released/AWS/IncrementalS3 

**Install the Splunk Add-on for AWS in a Splunk Cloud Deployment:**

Install the Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services (AWS) to your free trial instance of Splunk Cloud using the app browser in Splunk Cloud:

* From the Splunk Web home screen, click on the gear icon next to Apps in the navigation bar.
* Click Browse more apps.
* Find the Splunk Add-on for AWS, then click Install.
* Follow the on-screen prompts to complete your installation.
* Install the Splunk Add-on for AWS to an Inputs Data Manager. Request that Splunk Cloud Support installs the Splunk add-on for AWS on your Splunk Cloud instance.

**For more details for configuration visit:** https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/AddOns/released/AWS/SplunkCloud 

## Demo
Once the connection is established between splunk and S3 we can create various visualtizations or Dashboards on the web log data. Please follow the below demo link to ubderstand the exact use cases:
**Link:** https://youtu.be/V0T5IYoYOZE

### What is Splunk?
Splunk is used for application management, security and compliance, and business
and web analytics. It is able to do a lot with Big data in all forms including creating visualizations and dashboards which can be used to get real time updates on how a company is doing. Also, Splunk has advanced analytics capabilities, the ability to automate repetitive security tasks, complete security analytics and superior natural language processing capabilities. It also has machine learning capabilities. Splunk is used in almost every industry

### Why Splunk?
Splunk can allow you to unlock innovation by allowing you to contextually view your data with integrated security and observability. You can act confidently on every insight and respond quickly to threats. Splunk will also drive resilience as it allows you to get real-time views of the health and performance of your entire tech stack so you can identify any issues and fix them faster.

### Splunk vs Other platforms
Splunk has many competitors in the market but Splunk is superior to them. IBM QRadar is another similar platform but Splunk has superior search capabilities, text analytics and other natural language capabilities. LogRhythm is considered another competitor but Splunk has better options to manage large datasets and historical data. Finally, DataDog which is known for monitoring and security of big data but Splunk has a better system for monitoring and managing big data 

### How splunk can help with big data
The Splunk platform can connect to most public clouds, apps, databases to connect big data across your organization. The big data can be in any format. The Splunk platform is able to use the data in many different ways including streaming, machine learning, indexing, depending on the needs of your organization. With the powerful built-in features within splunk, we can - deploy and use splunk software with ease, Scale your Solution to fit your big data needs, Search across real-time and historical data and Analyze diverse datasets in one unified view. 

### Splunk Functionality Used
* Ad-hoc search: One of the key functions of Splunk that we shall demo today is ad-hoc search. Ad hoc search helps in quickly visualizing data across the organization. It is a user-friendly feature that aids in easy exploration of the data and also stores these searches for potential future use. Splunk uses a Search Processing Language (SPL) which is an extremely powerful tool for extracting meaning out of vast amounts of data and performing relevant statistical operations. 
*  Visualization: Splunk dashboards allow for monitoring all systems at once - which delivers a connected experience, hence when a problem occurs one can start looking for a solution proactively before the system shows any symptoms, or even better, dashboards can help to clearly look for signs of any potential problems. One can also use AI to drive troubleshooting for faster issue resolution.
